# hotel_booking_capstone
The hotel industry is one of the most important components of the wider  service industry, catering for customers who require overnight accommodation. This project discusses the key success factors of the hospitality industry. We  have studied the data to get some to run a successful business. 
 In this study we have sample data about the hotel industry that is not  processed for use. Unprocessed data gives inaccurate results. To process this  data is called data cleaning. We have cleaned the data by handling null values,  outliers and dropping unwanted columns. 
 We are then condensing the data for our study. This is Data Manipulation.  We achieve this result by performing functions on the columns. We have come  up with new columns such as total kids, guests, stays, revenue etc. 
 In our data study we have 2 types of hotels- the resort type and city hotel  type. There are factors in the study which affect the business of the hotels.  Factors such as location, ADR, Deposits charged, wait time, etc. We also have  channels like distribution channel, Market segment to focus on to get more  revenue.  
 We have used python to analyze the data. We have studied the factors  which are affecting the booking and cancellations in hotels. With this study we  can calculate the revenue. Any business is measured by its KPI. For this industry  Revenue is the KPI. 
 After all this here are some prominent conclusions such as city type hotels  are more preferred hotels. Cancellation is less in resort hotels. Whereas people  prefer city hotels for shorter stay and resort hotels for longer stay. Bed and  Breakfast is the most preferred meal type. City hotels having refundable policies  and Resort hotels having no deposit are expensive. Also, Transient customers bring in most revenue and TA/TO are the most profitable distribution channels.  Lastly Portugal is the most profitable destination with the highest revenue.

